xvi INTRODUCTION

Deinde hoc opere completo eo profectus tandem causa
profectionis comperta taedio et angore vitam finivit.

To these Lines one more is to be added, recently
found by Dr. Diirr iu a MS. in the Palazzo Barberini at

Rome (Coc. Barbaricas, viii. 18), of which the first
sentence is important. ’

Iunius Iuvenalis Aquinas Iunio Iuvenale patre, matre r
vero Septumuleio ex Aquinati municipio Claudio Nerone 3
et L. Antistio oonsulibus natusest. Sororem habuit ⁴

Septumuleiam quae Fuscino nupsit.

Now that there is some close relationship between ¹
these Lines is evident from the large number of similar ¹
or identical phrases oocurring in all or most of them,
and that some of the Lines were copied from others
within thesemo group is quite possible. At the same
time, the differences between the various groups are too
great for us to suppose that any one of the extant Lines

was the origin of the rest. That some of the statements, ¹

especially those which give reasons rather than facts,
may have been the invention of mediaeval grammarians
is probable‚ and also that others were derived from
references in the Satires,· but after deducting all these

there remains aresiduum of definite and precise state· ἵ

ments-some found in all the Lines, others in several of
them—some of which receive indirect confirmation from
other sources and all of which in all probability date
back to some common authority not at any rate later in
date than the Scholia found in Codex P, which, as will
be seen later, belong probably to the fourth or fifth
century. This is substantially the view of Dr. Diirr,
who, in a very able monograph on the Life of Juvenal,
subjecte the Licea to a very thorough criticisrn, and

 

